source: https://zeldatearsofthekingdom.wiki.fextralife.com/Abilities
Abilities in Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom are the abilities that you can obtain throughout your playthrough by completing certain Quests. These Abilities will prove useful in solving puzzles, exploring and having access to some parts of Hyrule, and also using them in Combat. In the previous game Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the Great Plateau bestows you with four Rune Abilities namely Magnesis, Stasis, Cryonis, and Remote Bombs. These abilities allow you to manipulate the environment.
In Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, however, it looks like the runes will be cast on Link's corrupted arm and that's where you'll get your abilities from. This page covers the Abilities you would acquire throughout your playthrough of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom.
 Using the new Ultrahand ability, Link can pick up, move, and rotate objects. He can even attach things together to create bridges, vehicles, and more!

Using the new Ultrahand ability, Link can pick up, move, and rotate objects. He can even attach things together to create bridges, vehicles, and more!

Add a new dimension to your exploration with Ascend, which gives Link the ability to pass through solid objects above him. Rise up through ceilings, hillsides, and even certain enemies to create seemingly impossible shortcuts.

Magically fuse objects to Link’s current weapon, shield, or arrow to increase durability, damage, or even add a new effect. Experiment with lots of different combinations to come up with surprising—and sometimes hilarious—results!
Use Recall to reverse an object’s movement, letting Link ride fallen boulders skyward, recover thrown weapons, or send projectiles back where they came from.

Use the Camera to take a picture by pressing the L button. You can take pictures of equipment, materials, and Creatures to register them in the Hyrule Compendium. Once you've taken a picture, the Hyrule Compendium will show relevant information of the photo you've taken and can even help you track them if you ever need to find them.


Use the Autobuild to instantly build machines and vehicles by using schematics. Once you build something with the ability Ultrahand, it will automatically save it to your Autobuild history.

You can use the Amiibo and scan the figure to receive special rewards.

You can view the Map by opening the Purah Pad and hover over the compass icon to get a clearer view of the lands of Hyrule.

You can use the Amiibo and scan the figure to receive special rewards.