source: https://www.nintendolife.com/guides/zelda-tears-of-the-kingdom-beginners-tips-what-to-do-first#zelda-tears-of-the-kingdom-beginners-tips

Tears of the Kingdom has a fairly lengthy tutorial, and for good reason — not only has it been six years since Breath of the Wild came out, but you've also got four brand-new abilities to mess about with.

The Great Sky Island is where you start your adventure, and you get all four abilities — Ultrahand, Fuse, Ascend, and Recall — over the course of the adventure. think Great Plateau and you're not far off. The game teaches you how to use all of these, and gives you a general idea of the ways you can interact with the world through the Shrines and by simply exploring and talking to the Constructs.
Put simply, there's no need to rush off the island to reach the surface straight away. Take your time, explore the island, and simply enjoy yourself.

When you first get to Hyrule, you can basically go wherever you want. But we recommend progressing with the story for a minute, at least until you unlock the first Skyview Tower and you get your paraglider.
That means completing the To the Kingdom of Hyrule quest. You should also pick up the Camera Work in the Depths quest from Josha to get your camera upgrade for your Purah Pad.
When you get the Regional Phenomena quest, you'll be directed towards four different objective markers. You can do these in any order, but we have a recommended story route for you.

Weapon durability returns, but in Tears of the Kingdom, it feels like weapons are everywhere. Enemies drop them, swords are often just lying around, and in caves, you'll often find swords buried underneath rocks.
Basically, don't be afraid to fight things and don't be afraid to break things. You'll get replacements all the time. Check out our guide for the Best Early-Game Weapons for more info.

Just like in Breath of the Wild, resources are abundant in Tears of the Kingdom, and you should pick up basically everything you see. There are lots of early materials that will come in useful for cooking and navigating...
		Brightbloom Seeds are fantastic to help you see in the dark. You'll find these in caves, and you should hold on to them.
		Spicy Peppers, Flame fruit, and Ice Fruit are all brilliant for making dishes that protect you against different weather conditions. You can also make some pretty dangerous elemental arrows with these, too.
		Bomb Flowers replace your Remote Bomb from BOTW, and they can be a bit rare if you don't dive down every cave you see.
		Weapons should go without saying, even with your limited inventory initially.


When you're on Great Sky Island, you'll come across Zonai Dispensers, gacha machines that give you Zonai device capsules for a price. These are worth spending your Zonai Charges on early on because they'll allow you to quickly put together vehicles.
The Device Dispenser on the Great Sky Island can give you rop Flame Emitters, Wings, Fans, and Portable Pots. Flame Emitters are fantastic for making good weapons, while Wings and Fans are good for traversal. Portable Pots are portable cooking pots that you can use once to cook something — extremely handy when you're in a pinch and there's no cooking pot or fire laying around.
Check out our complete list of all Zonai devices and where you can find them.


There are tons of caves and wells across Hyrule, and they often contain handy items, materials, and monsters that drop stronger weapons and materials. This is also where you get Bomb Flowers, gems, and Brightbloom Seeds, along with frogs and lizards for elixirs. In some caves, you can even find a Fairy or three.
You'll also eventually pick up a quest which wants you to find every well across Hyrule. For every well you find, the Well Enthusiast will give you 10 Rupees, so it's a nice little hit of cash if you're the explorative type.


Lastly, caves are where you'll find Bubbulfrogs and Bubbul Gems. Find out what you can do with those in our Bubbul Gem guide.
Don't forget about Ascend
Ascend isn't used as often as Recall, Ultrahand, or Fuse, but it might just be the best of the four new abilities Link has.
Stuck in a cave? Use Ascend. Need to sneak up on an enemy above you? Use Ascend. Spot some grey blocks on the side of a mountain or wall? Ascend is your friend.
Basically, Ascend can save you a huge headache and can get you out of tight spots. Remember it, use it, and love it.
Sell your gems
Gems can be used to make elemental weapons, but in the early game, you don't really need to hold onto them as they don't add a ton of attack power to your weapons.
You can find precious stones in mineral rocks in caves and wells across Hyrule. Here's how much each precious stone sells for:
		Amber - 10 Rupees
		Opal - 30 Rupees
		Topaz - 80 Rupees
		Ruby - 110 Rupees
		Sapphire - 150 Rupees
		Diamond - 500 Rupees
For more money-making tips, check out our How To Get Rupees guide.

Zonaite is a pretty rare material (at least until you explore the Depths), but it's also an extremely valuable one that you can use to buy items to upgrade your Energy Cells, the battery power used to power Zonai Devices.
Zonaite can be spent at the Forge Construct on the Great Sky Island to buy Crystallized Charges. These charges can be used at the Crystal Refinery, which you can access by warping to Nachoyah Shrine. Don't sell them for Rupees because Energy Cells are much more important later on in the game.

While you can eventually build some pretty elaborate creations in Tears of the Kingdom, nothing is better than a good ol' horse to get you started.
As early as Central Hyrule, you can find horses grazing about in the fields. Capturing these is the exact same as in Breath of the Wild — sneak up on them and press 'A' when you're close enough to right. Give them a pat with the 'L' button, and then you're off. Horses make for a safe way of getting around too, as they naturally follow the roads of Hyrule.
