Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/truezelda/comments/13l35ak/totk_botw_totk_complete_story_overhaul_and/
We all know the start of the timeline so this story overhaul skips right to after the end of Skyward Sword when people started to populate the Surface and became the Hylian race. I will also not discuss the Interloper War since we already know what happened. However I do question its relation with the Zonai race and the sudden disappearance (more on that later).
Long ago, sometime between the Sky Era and the Era of Hyrule’s Founding, the Zonai came down from the heavens to the surface of the world and made their home in the Faron region. They were said to be descendants of gods and brought with them Secret Stones, magical artifacts that amplify the power their owners possess. Their advanced technology caused them to form close bonds with the Hylians over time as they taught them all about constructing the land.
Ages had past, and the Zonai race was reduced to only Rauru and his older sister Mineru. Using the knowledge of the Zonai, Rauru, became a great leader and wed a Hylian woman named Sonia, who was in fact the descendant of the first Zelda and therefore the Goddess Hylia herself. He gifted Sonia one of the Secret Stones and together they established Hyrule Kingdom. They became the first King and Queen of Hyrule thus the Royal Family was born. Sonia had the power over time, which she inherited from the Goddess Hylia, and was referred to as the ‘’Sage of Time’’ while Rauru had powers of light able to repel evil and therefore was named the ‘’Sage of Light’’. They had built a castle as their home somewhere near Central Hyrule which was referred to as the ‘’Temple of Time’’. Under their rule the land of Hyrule florished for years and the future looked bright.
One day, Zelda having traveled back in time after finding Ganondorf’s mummified body in TotK, meets with Sonia and Rauru. Zelda, unaware of where she is, explains that she is a Princess of the Royal Family and must have traveled through time. However, both Sonia and Rauru never heard of her name before and are surprised since they are the ones who established Hyrule Kingdom. Sonia believes Zelda though since she can feel the power of time and light within Zelda as well as sensing a blood connection. She tells Zelda that she must be their descendant. Rauru advises to visit his sister, Mineru, because she might be able to help Zelda getting back to her own era.
When visiting Mineru Zelda explains her story and shows the Purah Pad hoping it might be of use. Mineru takes the device, hoping to use it for teleportation in their era. She tells Zelda that she is the Sage of Spirit and explains the use of the Secret Stones. Mineru mentions a forbidden act called ‘’draconification’’ which grants eternal life by becoming an immortal dragon after swallowing a Secret Stone. However, the person will lose itself which is why it’s considered forbidden.
During one of the conversations between Zelda and Sonia inside the Garden of Time, Sonia teaches her the ways of her Recall ability over time. Rauru joins the two and Zelda tells them about Link, who they are eager to meet, but something is troubling Zelda…
Days pass and on a certain evening, the Gerudo King named ‘’Ganondorf’’ orders a swarm of Molduga to attack Hyrule Castle but they are easily repelled by Rauru, Sonia and Zelda, who had been training for some time now. Ganondorf, taking note of the Secret Stones’ power, thinks of a new plan. This involves swearing his loyalty and that of the Gerudo to King Rauru. After he is dismissed, Zelda tells Rauru about Ganondorf’s evil nature to which Rauru agrees but he assures her he wants to keep him close in order to keep an eye on him.
One night, Zelda requests to talk with Sonia. However, it was not Zelda but a puppet of Ganondorf trying to assassinate Sonia. The real Zelda stops the puppet using Recall but suddenly Sonia is killed from behind by Ganondorf who steals her Secret Stone. The stone amplifies Ganondorf’s power of darkness and turns him into the Demon King with an appearance similar to Demise and causes the moon to turn blood red. With his new powers Ganondorf fills the land of Hyrule with monsters. Rauru enters the room and finds out what has happened. Furious he attacks Ganondorf but is not able to withstand him. Zelda uses the Purah Pad to teleport herself along with Rauru and Sonia’s corpse away to safety.
The Demon King Ganondorf and his army of monsters attack Hyrule Kingdom for the next days. The four leaders of the tribes which were the Zora, Goron, Gerudo and Rito, gather on the order of King Rauru. The Gerudo region has fallen and soon the other regions will be attacked as well. The seven conduct a plan to stop Ganondorf and Rauru provides the four leaders with their own Secret Stone. The Zora leader becomes the Sage of Water, Goron the Sage of Fire, Gerudo the Sage of Lightning, and Rito the Sage of Wind. Along with Zelda, having replaced Sonia, and Mineru they become the Six Sages with Rauru as their leader.
Sonia is buried within an underground temple and mourned by Rauru. Zelda visits him and tells Rauru about Ganondorf’s corpse in her own era and how he will awaken no matter what they do. She tells Rauru of his own fate but he tells her he knows what he has to do. He mentions that they must rely on Link in her own time but he also says they can change the future now Zelda is here with them.Rauru and the Six Sages challenge Ganondorf somewhere in an underground section beneath Central Hyrule but are not able to defeat him. All seven suffered multiple wounds but Rauru has one last plan but it required the ultimate sacrifice. He uses his power of light to seal Ganondorf away at the cost of his own life. His last words mention how Link will defeat Ganondorf in the future to which Ganondorf responds he’s eager to meet this ‘’Link’’. This event became known as the ‘’Imprisoning War’’.
After the battle Zelda is within the Temple of Time when a huge door opens up to her. Outside she finds the Master Sword that Link had send back in time. Fi within the sword tells Zelda Link is safe and that the sword had travelled through time to her. Zelda takes the sword to Mineru and explains that the sword can heal itself over the years. She tells her she knows what to do. Mineru, having been hurt by the battle, agrees and promises to help Link in her own way. She does so by transferring her spirit inside the Purah Pad to wait for Link in the future. Back outside the Temple of Time, Zelda gives the Purah Pad to a Zonai Construct in order to keep it safe for Link in the future. Zelda restores the Master Sword through the draconification process which turns her into an immortal dragon where she roams the sky for thousands of years.
In the following years Hyrule Castle is built over the location where Ganondorf was sealed away and the existence of the Zonai became legend. This marks the end of the Era of Hyrule’s Founding. The events of the Force Era all the way up to and including the child/downfall/adult era take place.Centuries have past and the Sheikah advance in technology based on the Zonai Magic. They create the Divine Beasts and the Guardians in case Ganon returns. Four Champions are chosen, each from one of the tribes, to pilot the Divine Beasts as well as assist the current Princess Zelda and Link.
A great evil emerges from beneath Hyrule Castle, referred to as ‘’Calamity Ganon’’ but is easily defeated. After the battle, the King of Hyrule orders the technology to be buried out of fear. This cause a split in the Sheikah which became the Yiga Clan, loyal to Calamity Ganon.
A prophecy warns of Calamity Ganon’s return. King Rhoam orders to excavate the ancient technology and appoints the four Champions Mipha, Daruk, Urbosa and Revali to pilot the Divine Beasts. Link is chosen as Princess Zelda’s Knight and pulls the Master Sword.
The Second Great Calamity occurs but this time possesses the ancient technology. King Rhoam and the four Champions perish and Link becomes mortally wounded. Zelda manages to unlock her powers and temporarily seals Calamity Ganon away with her inside it. Link is put inside the Shrine of Restoration to heal for the next 100 years.
The evens of present-BotW take place. He frees King Rhoam’s spirit as well as the spirit of the Champions by defeating the Blight Ganons that remained inside the Divine Beasts. Link also meets the Champion’s descendants, being Sidon of the Zora and Mipha’s brother, Yunobo of the Goron and Daruk’s grandson, Riju of the Gerudo and Urbosa’s granddaughter, and Teba of the Rito and another warrior like Revali.
Link obtains the Master Sword and finally defeats Calamity Ganon, saving Zelda in the process. After its defeat, Zelda and Link return the Master Sword to its pedestal inside Korok Forest in order to restore it. Over the next few years, Hyrule is slowly rebuild but strange events start to happen regarding people suddenly falling ill to a substance called ‘’Gloom’’.
Zelda and Link retrieve the Master Sword once again and venture deep beneath Hyrule into the Dephts, a colossal network of caverns, where they find old Zonai ruins and murals. They come across Ganondorf’s mummified body, which had been sealed away for thousands of years. The body accidentally awakens and recognizes Zelda and Link. The Master Sword gets destroyed and Ganondorf causes Hyrule Castle to be lifted up into the sky. This event, known as the ‘’Upheaval’’, opened many chasm into the Dephts. At the same time, pieces of Zonai ruins began falling from the sky. Zelda, using the Secret Stone she picked up from Ganondorf’s body, is transfered back in time to the Era of Hyrule’s Founding while Link is send to the Great Sky Island by Rauru’s arm that was sealing Ganondorf.
The events of present-TotK take place. Link wakes up on the Great Sky Island with his new magical arm. He is guided by Rauru and is given the Purah Pad back by the Zonai Construct, who had been keeping it safe for all those years. Link sends the Master Sword to the Era of Hyrule’s Founding, helps the regions of Hyrule and awakens Sidon, Yunobo, Riju and Teba’s son Tulin as the new Sages of their tribes and are gifted the Secret Stone of their ancestor. Mineru’s spirit inside the Purah Pad guides Link to an underground temple and assembles a physical body for her by creating a Zelda Construct.
Zelda having restored the Master Sword in the past now roams the sky as a dragon. Link retrieves the Master Sword by pulling it out of the dragon’s head. Link, Sidon, Yunobo, Riju, Tulin and Construct-Mineru all gather to fight the Demon King and his monsters. Ganondorf’s mummified body returns to normal and he challenges Link. On the brink of defeat Ganondorf transforms himself into a dragon by swallowing his Secret Stone with a look similar to the Calamity from BotW that roamed around Hyrule Castle. Dragon-Zelda appears to aid Link in his battle. Together they manage to defeat Dragon-Ganon for once and for all. Link’s arm with the power of Sonia and Rauru restores Zelda to her Hylian Form. The spirits of Sonia and Rauru then disappear with Link’s arm returning to normal. Hyrule is safe once again. Link, Zelda, Sidon, Yunobo, Riju, Tulin and Purah arrive on the Great Sky Island and meet with Mineru’s spirit. They all make the promise to keep Hyrule safe for generations to come and Mineru’s spirit disappears to the afterlife.
