source: https://www.cbr.com/zelda-totk-tricks-complete-shrines/
It might seem obvious, but getting to grips with the basics of the sequel game can be a crucial way to progress quickly through the Shrines. Some players try tackling some of these puzzles before they are ready, or without putting a great deal of focus and energy into mastering Link's moves and abilities. But, each Shrine will call upon the player to demonstrate what they have learned, with combat scenarios, aiming, dodging, and a range of other skills called into question. Sometimes, these talents might be called upon at a moment's notice.
There is no point in entering a Shrine if the player still hasn't quite gotten the hang of Link's full arsenal of gifts and how to best utilize them. The best advice is to actually continue through the main narrative and train where possible. Players who have already completed a respectable chunk of the game and have already overcome a series of challenges often find that the Shrines are far easier to accomplish because they are simply calling upon skills and knowledge that have already been developed.
Once the player is comfortable with their skillset and is on the search for Shrines, it's often critical that they approach the challenge as soon as they come across it. It's quite difficult to find Shrines, and with so many in the game, players will find that it's a less daunting task to take them all on, if that process is spread out across play. So, when players find a Shrine, regardless of what they are doing, they are best off actually trying to break it straight away, rather than having to return to the site at a later time.

But there is a critical tip here, and that's that none of the Shrines will call upon abilities that the player does not have when they become accessible. That means that there aren't Shrines that require player progression at a higher level upon finding them, and players won't need weapons, powers, or skills that haven't already been unlocked. Players should, therefore, rest easy in the knowledge that they are always able to complete the Shrine ahead and do not need to leave. That should also help with the problem-solving aspects, as players no longer have to think a task is insurmountable with the resources available. There is always a way!
Part of the problem with beating Shrines is finding them in the first place. Players who do not utilize digital resources to help them locate these challenging areas will quickly find that exploring the map in detail is the best way to surface some of those hidden locations. Some players may even want to keep note of where they have been so far, and where they are going next, so they have a game plan on how to best find these Shrines, so that they continue on their journey accordingly, at the pace desired.
It's recommended that players look, particularly, where they don't expect, because a couple of the most secretive Shrines are located in bizarre places. It's hard to hit that 152 number without being able to find them at all, but players will naturally find themselves taking in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom's gorgeous landscape anyway. Side quests are a great time to be looking for Shrines, as they will take players to places that the main narrative might avoid, which opens up the map and gives players more time to search for these hidden areas.
It's easy to leap into a Shrine, get excited about the prospect of locating one, and forget how to take it down with great skill. Speed is of the essence, but that doesn't mean that rushing into one of these challenges is wise. Where possible, players should take a step back, assess the situation, and make a plan accordingly. Because there is nothing more frustrating than running around in circles, not taking in the visual information ahead, and then not being able to complete the puzzles themselves.
What each Shrine asks of the player isn't always immediately obvious, and so it's advisable to take a second to actually look at what's been presented. The environment can offer some major clues, as can the small narrative elements that have been painted into a scene. Sometimes, the answer is staring directly at the player, but it's simple to overlook because there is often too much information to take in. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom occasionally requires players to react rather than observe, but this is not one of those times.
Firstly, completing the side quest 'A Mystery In The Depths,' players will be gifted with a Shrine Sensor, which is triggered whenever the player is near a Shrine. That takes away all the hassle of trying to locate Shrines, as the game will literally tell the player when they are close to one. Undoubtedly, additions like these are exactly why players should complete missions outside of the main narrative, and who knows what other tools and rewards could come in handy to complete those Shrines.

But secondly, and most crucially, players will find that some of the tasks that they are asked to complete within these side quests are eerily similar to what they must then achieve as part of the Shrines. Some side missions involve puzzles that call upon the same skills or knowledge. Indeed, it's only logical that the game can only boast a specific variety of challenges to solve, and so it stands to reason that there will be crossover there. Players are a little more supported in the side quests than they are in Shrine solving, and should take note of what they learn in this setting before carrying that over.

Some Shrines involve combat scenarios, with the player having to survive a series of physical ordeals that could push them to the limit. Those who are not as confident in this aspect of the title, and often feel overwhelmed when faced with multiple threats, will find this next tip especially useful. It is key that the player continues to build their HP and stamina where possible, so that they are given space to mess up and take significant damage.
Attempting Shrines over and over again only complicates the mission, creating fatigue in the player and meaning that the 152 goal looms ever further in the distance. But by creating this shield, there is room for error, and players will find that combat scenarios have the sting taken out of them. Naturally, if a player wants to complete all the Shrines, they will be building their HP as they go, as this is a reward. Players should thus remember to actually pray at a Goddess Statue to make the most of those achievements.
Combat situations, whether they ask players to showcase their archery abilities or perhaps their close-quarters skills, will emerge throughout the course of exploring Shrines. But players can come prepared by taking care of their weapons, upgrading them, and modifying them where needed, and ensuring that they are in the best condition. Because entering into some of these scenarios without these elements could prove to be costly.

For example, players may want to use the Attack Up modifier, which increases the attacking strength or power of the weapon. This means that the enemy is dealt bigger blows, quickening the pace of victory. Or there's Long Throw, which allows Link to throw a weapon even further. Players should explore the options available and make choices based on their play style and potentially what a Shrine may ask of them.
There are multiple types of Shrines in one of the best games of the series, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, and not all of them require the same approach. In fact, players may find that they are especially good at one type of Shrine compared to the others. If that's the case, then they should continue targeting those to make good progress and add to their health, before then progressing on to some of those more challenging scenarios. But understanding what each Shrine asks of the player is critical.
Combat Training Shrines, for example, are much more physical and help the player improve their combat techniques. Crystal Shrines feature very specific puzzles. Puzzle Shrines are more generalized in their challenges. Rauru's Blessing Shrines are usually difficult to enter, first of all. Then there's Proving Grounds Shrines, which tests the player on their combat skills once more, and whether they have the stamina to survive. Learning more about each type will aid the player in their quest.
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, much like its predecessor, features some incredible gameplay mechanics that allow Link to accomplish some unbelievable things. These are backed up by a realistic physics system that often helps players make the impossible possible. Some of the challenges they may come across don't necessarily have one solution. Of course, some puzzle Shrines will undoubtedly ask players to take a single path, but other Shrine types are open to experimentation.

Players should have fun with how they approach these tasks and look for ways to innovate with the abilities available. Sometimes it's an unexpected combination that works the best. What might have been successful last time might not be as useful this time around. So, whether it's the use of Ultrahand or perhaps Fuse, sometimes the abilities the players have had the whole time and might ignore in a situation like this, end up being critical.
