source: https://zelda.fandom.com/wiki/The_Legend_of_Zelda:_Tears_of_the_Kingdom#Plot
A few years[1] after the events of Breath of the Wild, Link and Zelda are exploring a secret passage hidden beneath Hyrule Castle. Although King Rhoam had warned Zelda in the past that not even the royal family was to go there, she believes that what lies beneath is connected to the strange phenomena spreading throughout Hyrule, referred to as ‘Gloom’. As they travel, they find ancient ruins that Zelda identifies as being of Zonai origin. They eventually find a room with large murals. The first one depicts the Zonai descending to Hyrule, floating, with Hylians bowing down at the bottom of the mural and seven teardrop-shaped stones (Secret Stones) floating around them. His causes Zelda to realize that the ‘gods’ that descended from the heavens to found the royal family and Hyrule must have been Zonai. The next shows a Zonai and a Hylian joining hands with two secret stones floating above them, and Hylians seemingly rejoicing in all the corners of the mural. Next to that, there is an image of the same Hylian who joined hands with the Zonai in the last mural floating seemingly prone as tendrils of dark material swirl around her, it’s source a large humanoid being. Above that being is the Secret Stone that the Hylian once held. The last (visible) mural shows the humanoid now much larger, with monstrous features, surrounded by monsters. This seemed to be depicting a great war against a being usually referred to as "The Demon King", the stories of which had been passed down by the royal family.
In the deepest chamber, Link and Zelda find a mummified Ganondorf emanating Gloom, bound by a disembodied arm. As they enter, the arm falls off and drops a teardrop-shaped gem, like the ones found in the murals. As Zelda picks it up, Ganondorf comes to life and strikes with a surge of Gloom. Link blocks the attack with the Master Sword, but Ganondorf's dark power decays the blade, saps Link's strength, and leaves his right arm blackened and weakened. Ganondorf reveals that he knows Link and Zelda and mocks the former's inability to harm him, mentioning that someone called ""Rauru"" had placed his trust in the hero.
Ganondorf sends a surge of Gloom that causes Hyrule Castle to rise into the sky before falling deep underground. Zelda falls into a chasm, as Link drops the used-to-be Master Sword and attempts to catch Zelda, only for to her disappear into a flash of light. Link nearly falls in as well, but is grabbed by the disembodied arm and teleported away. When he reawakens, he finds that the arm has replaced his own. A voice says that Zelda had told him about Link, and that Link's arm had to be replaced to ensure that he did not die from his injuries. Recovering the Decayed Master Sword, he leaves the chamber he woke up in to find himself on an island floating in the sky. He descends to another island, meeting a Steward Construct who gives him Zelda's Purah Pad at her request. It directs Link to the Temple of Time, but upon reaching it, Link finds that he cannot enter. He then meets a ghostly figure identifying himself as Rauru, who informs Link that the arm he now possesses was once his own and that its power might be restored if Link visits three of the shrines on the island and gains their sacred light. After opening the gate, Link finds a larger teardrop-shaped gem that changes into an apparition of Zelda, granting him the Recall power before vanishing. Link's path is then blocked by a second sealed door, which he lacks the vitality to open. Rauru advises Link to visit the island's last shrine and offer it to their Goddess Statue, which will restore some of the vitality he lost to the Gloom. After doing so, Link is able to open the door. Rauru advises Link to continue visiting shrines to recover his strength before passing on, telling Link that it will be up to him to aid Zelda.
At the highest point of the Temple, Link finds a glowing light that reacts with the Master Sword. Placing it into the light, the Sword vanishes and is received by Zelda at an unknown location. Link spots a dragon, which parts the clouds beneath the island to reveal the kingdom of Hyrule beneath it. He receives a telepathic message from "Zelda" asking him to find her, beginning his quest to save Hyrule once again.
Link returns to Hyrule, learning that the earlier events, called the "Upheaval", has caused chaos across Hyrule. Link then goes to investigate the mysterious reports of disturbances and Zelda's appearance throughout Hyrule. In the process, Link defeats four monsters occupying ancient Zonai temples with the aid of four acquaintances – Tulin of the avian Rito tribe where they climb to the Stormwind Ark and beat the monster Colgera, Sidon of the aquatic Zora tribe who, with Link, beats the sludge octopus Mucktorok in the Water Temple, Riju of the desert-dwelling Gerudo tribe, where Link helps beat the monstrous Queen Gibdo inside the Lightning Temple, and Yunobo of the mountain-dwelling Goron tribe where Marbled Gohma nests in a volcano near the lost city of Gordonia. With each defeated monster, Link finds Secret Stones, Zonai artifacts that increase the innate power of their users. Spiritual forms of ancient sages appear to Link and his companions, appointing Link's companions as new sages and passing down the Stones. After handling the monsters, Link tracks down "Zelda" to Hyrule Castle. At the castle, "Zelda" reveals itself to be an impostor in Ganondorf's service before being defeated by Link and his companions. Link further encounters Mineru, an ancient sage utilizing spiritual projection to stay in the physical world, and provides her with an artificially constructed mechanical body.
Through Mineru, the sages' spirits, and a number of dragon tears scattered throughout Hyrule, Link learns of Zelda's fate. The mysterious artifact which vanished with Zelda was a Secret Stone, and she was transported through time through the distant past. There, she met Rauru, who was revealed to be the first king of Hyrule. In the past, Ganondorf murdered Rauru's wife, Queen Sonia, and acquired her Secret Stone, turning himself into the "Demon King". Rauru sacrifices himself to seal away Ganondorf. Zelda then receives the Master Sword, and in order to restore it, she transformed into a dragon by consuming her Secret Stone. Prior to her transformation, she tasked the past sages to provide aid to Link in the future. In the present, Link retrieves the Master Sword from Zelda's dragon form, and heads to Ganondorf's location far beneath the castle. There, Link fights Ganondorf's army with the aid of the Sages' successors and Mineru before engaging in combat with Ganondorf himself. Nearing defeat, Ganondorf consumes his Secret Stone, becoming a demonic dragon in a final attempt to kill Link. Zelda's draconic form arrives and assists Link in shattering the secret stone, causing the Demon Dragon to implode, killing Ganondorf. With the help of Rauru and Sonia's spirits, Zelda regains her true physical appearance, and Link regains his right arm, and the two fall onto the surface of Hyrule via a pond.
Some time later, on the Sky Island where Link had awakened, Mineru bids goodbye to Zelda and Link before her spirit disperses, while the Sages' successors vow to protect Hyrule.

