source: https://screenrant.com/zelda-totk-why-turned-into-dragon-secret-stone/
Zelda's transformation into a dragon in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is never fully explained in-game. Its more detailed and engaging story is just one of the ways in which TOTK improves on BOTW. Still, much of it unfolds through flashbacks, which, as before, can only be accessed by completing specific tasks spread across the map: Zelda: TOTK's Geoglyphs and Dragon's Tears. As a result, players may see much of the plot's setup out of order, which can make it difficult to put the pieces together. That goes double when it comes to Zelda's transformation into the Light Dragon.
Ultimately, it all boils down to one of the biggest reveals in Zelda: TOTK - Link spends the entire game searching for his lost love and the missing Master Sword, only to find they've both been right under his nose (or over it) the entire time. However, for all the tearful reunions and monologues that follow, it can be hard to tell exactly why Zelda turned into a dragon - why not just seal herself away like in the previous game? As it turns out, there are two very good explanations for Zelda's decision. Players just have to do a little digging to find them.
The first and foremost reason why Zelda turned into a dragon is merely practical: becoming the Light Dragon makes Zelda functionally immortal. During the cave scene at the beginning of the game, as Zelda falls into the chasm, she activates a powerful artifact (a Secret Stone) that sends her back 10,000 years in time. She quickly makes friends with Hyrule's rulers, Sonia and Rauru, who agree to help her - but she still needs to get back to the future. And in the TOTK universe, dragons are functionally immortal (or at least have lifespans much longer than humans). So she swallows the Secret Stone and turns into the Light Dragon to await Link's re-arrival.

The other reason why Zelda turned into a dragon in TOTK is tactical: as the Light Dragon, Zelda was able to repair the Master Sword. During the Upheaval that sends Zelda back in time, the Master Sword is broken in two. That leaves Link without the weapon he needs to defeat Ganondorf. But as a dragon, Zelda has access to a powerful form of healing light. So she sticks the hilt of the Master Sword into her draconic head, and, in the 10,000 years she waits for Link, the light inside her is able to repair and restore it to its full power. This way, by the time Link finally solves the mystery of Zelda's disappearance, his weapon of choice is ready and waiting for him.
The reasons why Zelda turned into a dragon are present in TOTK - they can just be hard to piece together. In the end, the transformation was a genius move by Zelda and her allies from the past, quickly solving both of her (and Hyrule's) major problems. The result is a uniquely touching story twist, and one of the most emotional moments in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom.

